h1. Textpattern database manager

The rss_admin_db_manager plugin adds three menu items to your Textpattern admin interface. Each contains different functionality to help manage your "MySQL":https://www.mysql.com/ database. You can think of this plugin as a lightweight replacement for "phpMyAdmin":https://www.phpmyadmin.net/.

h2(#database-backup). Database backup

The _Database backup_ panel allows you to backup, download and restore the MySQL database that is used for your Textpattern installation.

The database backups and restores are run using MySQL's "mysqldump":https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql/en/mysqldump.html command.

On this panel you are able to:

* Create a .sql backup file on windows with the additional option of creating a gzipped backup on *nix operating systems
* View a list of previous backup files
* Restore your database from one of the previous backups
* Download a backup file
* Delete old backups

h3(#backup-preferences). Backup preferences

Set several preferences related to your database backups. You can set these options on the Database backup panel. The options are:

* *Lock Tables* - Your host may or may not support this option. If your backup fails, try setting this to “No”.
* *Include txp_log* - Include or omit the txp_log table from the backup.
* *Debug Mode* - Turning debugging on will echo the command being run to the screen.
* *Backup Path* - Set the directory that your backups will be saved to. Defaults to your Textpattern temp directory.
* *Mysqldump Path* - It's likely that the default will work for you. If not, enter the full path to the executable.
* *Mysql Path* - It's likely that the default will work for you. If not, enter the full path to the executable.

h2(#database-manager). Database manager

The _Database manager_ panel displays information about your MySQL database and all of its tables. A detailed list includes the name of the table, number of rows and file space usage.

You will also be alerted of any overhead or errors that need to be repaired. Tables can be repaired, optimized, dropped or backed up from this listing.

* Clicking on the name of the table will run a @select * FROM [table name]@ SQL statement and take you to the _Run SQL_ panel to display the results.
* Repair a single (MyISAM) table by clicking its corresponding _Repair_ link.
* Repair all (MyISAM) tables by clicking the _Repair all_ link at the bottom of the table.
* Optimize a single table by clicking its corresponding _Optimize_ link.
* Backup a single table by clicking its corresponding _Backup_ link.
* Drop a single table by clicking its corresponding _Drop_ link.

h2(#run-sql-window). Run SQL

The _Run SQL_ panel allows free form entry and execution of SQL statements. The SQL window accepts SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, CREATE, REPLACE, TRUNCATE, and DELETE statements. If a SELECT statement is run, the results will be displayed below the SQL command in a table.

h2(#major-ransom-contributors). Major Ransom Contributors

* Jan Willem de Bruijn
* Heikki Yl
